---
id: 198b62da6ea6a798
subject: "Toward a Shallower Future"
sender: "Noahpinion <noahpinion@substack.com>"
date: "Sun, 17 Aug 2025 03:53:11 +0000"
saved_at: "2025-08-20T21:05:58.248132"
---

# Toward a Shallower Future

**发送者:** Noahpinion <noahpinion@substack.com>  
**日期:** Sun, 17 Aug 2025 03:53:11 +0000  
**邮件ID:** 198b62da6ea6a798

---

[View this post on the web](https://www.noahpinion.blog/p/toward-a-shallower-future-2ab)

Today I saw my friend Noor Siddiqui [link](https://substack.com/redirect/fdb3777a-5a9c-465d-abeb-1535e07afb34?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) getting some grief on the internet. Noor is the founder and CEO of Orchid [link](https://substack.com/redirect/101db36a-0e7e-406a-bcad-1fc103cae49a?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), a company that will select your embryos for IVF in order to avoid passing on genetic diseases. As someone with a number of friends who have genetic disorders, this seems highly appealing — I think most parents would want their child not to have to suffer the same innate handicaps that they suffered. Noor was recently interviewed about her company [link](https://substack.com/redirect/f1805af0-e957-4d54-b12e-8ca17e1b8e2a?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) by Ross Douthat of the New York Times.
When she tweeted out a link to the interview, Noor asked [link](https://substack.com/redirect/e3f1da46-88fd-4908-af25-0c07b9710f8b?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ):
What if your baby never walks? What if they are never able to live independently? What if you could have stopped it… but chose not to? That’s the question @OrchidInc [link](https://substack.com/redirect/0659f4b5-123d-4318-9ba4-b20a9acdb341?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA )’s embryo screening forces. You optimize everything…career, diet, skincare…but you’re going to chance it on your child’s genome, one of the most significant determinants of their health?
A lot of people on X got mad at this [link](https://substack.com/redirect/15aefdd3-81a6-4e9a-9a85-3adb96a4fda9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), calling it “eugenics”, claiming that it invalidated the life of people born with genetic disorders, and generally saying that Noor’s vision of healthy babies is dystopian.
The argument reminded me of one of my favorite essays that I’ve ever written — my New Year’s post [s post](https://substack.com/redirect/04eb2ffb-e31c-44b0-9b9d-d8b6550a6788?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) in January 2024. It was about how lots of people have the instinct to value human suffering, and to disdain technological solutions that make the struggles of the past obsolete. I thought I’d repost it, because I think it applies to the controversy over embryo screening as well.
“I would love to live to be 50 years old.” — Keith Haring
Yes, this post starts with the latest ridiculous contretemps on the social media platform formerly known as Twitter. But I promise, it gets more interesting!
The latest contretemps revolves around a famous painting: Keith Haring’s Unfinished Painting [link](https://substack.com/redirect/aff09a61-0192-4bf7-9d92-0a2b3ce62156?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). Painted in 1989, it represented the artist’s impending death from AIDS. Haring died the following year, at the age of 31.
It’s an incredibly haunting, tragic image. The streaks of paint falling from the fragment of a pattern immediately evoke tears, blood, disintegration, futility; they emphasize just how much of the canvas was left blank. It’s a reminder of how much of our potential as individuals is wasted, and of an almost-forgotten pandemic that claimed 700,000 lives in the U.S. alone.
The other day, a pseudonymous account named DonnelVillager posted [link](https://substack.com/redirect/0018b802-ff41-4eea-948a-64adb6363ba6?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) an AI-generated image that “completes” the pattern in the upper left of Haring’s painting:
DonnelVillager’s post — perfectly calculated to simulate ingenuousness, while actually poking fun at art appreciators — was itself a masterwork of internet pranksterism. It was instantly condemned by tens of thousands of angry Twitter users for “desecrating” Haring’s art [link](https://substack.com/redirect/06b112e2-5033-47db-9f78-d4708d6b3ec9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). Defenders responded [Defenders responded](https://substack.com/redirect/73e7a3bb-108e-4ff0-a1c2-fc138becdbbb?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) that DonnelVillager’s trollish tweet was itself a work of art, and that the furious response proved that AI art has the potential to be transgressive and to tweak the cultural orthodoxy’s tail.
Normally I would just shake my head at one more social media food fight and move on. But this reply by my friend Daniel caught my eye:
Of course, Daniel is also poking fun, but in a very important way, he’s right. If AIDS had never existed — or if HIV treatments had come just a little sooner — Haring might have created something like DonnelVillager’s AI image. After all, a fair amount of Haring’s other work did [link](https://substack.com/redirect/fad83a5d-c424-40a4-b584-52352b32bcdf?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) look like that [link](https://substack.com/redirect/fad83a5d-c424-40a4-b584-52352b32bcdf?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ).
And yes, without AIDS, Haring very well might never produced anything as haunting or evocative as Unfinished Painting. His art might have remained forever cheerful and whimsical, peppered with the occasional political statement. This June, William Poundstone wrote [wrote](https://substack.com/redirect/aff09a61-0192-4bf7-9d92-0a2b3ce62156?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) that “Everybody loves Keith Haring, but nobody takes him seriously…The [latest] exhibition does not exactly demolish the notion that Haring was repetitious.” The AI image that DonnelVillager created is an incredibly shallow thing — an unthinking regurgitation of meaningless patterns in a Haring-like style by a large statistical model. But without the pressure of a life cut short, Haring’s art might never have been as deep as it was.
Yet that would have been a good trade. Unfinished Painting is a great work of art, but it wasn’t worth the price of Haring’s life. Without AIDS, the world might have been a bit shallower, with less tragedy for humans to struggle against. But no one in their right mind wishes for tragedies to continue just so that human life can continue to be filled with pathos. Adversity is not worth the price of adversity. Even a world where Keith Haring lived to old age, but every one of his paintings was pointless AI-generated crap, would have been preferable to the world we actually got.
This got me thinking about the meaning of progress.
One of my grandfathers was a bombardier in the European theater of World War 2. He came back uninjured, but the stress of so many near-death experiences, and so many dead friends, drove him to lifelong alcoholism. Once, in the 1990s, I heard a conservative pundit claim that young Americans had become soft and weak because they had never had to face adversity like the World War 2 generation did. I asked my grandfather what he thought of that. After uttering something unprintable, he said: “I did that [stuff] so you wouldn’t have to.”
In a letter to his wife in 1780, John Adams, one of America’s founders, expressed a sentiment that was very similar to what my grandfather felt — and with which many veterans undoubtedly agree. He wrote:
I must study politics and war, that our sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. Our sons ought to study mathematics and philosophy, geography, natural history and naval architecture, navigation, commerce and agriculture in order to give their children a right to study painting, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry and porcelain.
Embedded in these statements is the belief that the trials and challenges of the world are potentially impermanent; that rather than something to be endured again and again ad infinitum, they are something that can and should be conquered and put behind us forever. It’s the belief that with effort, we can create a durably better world.
That’s not a trivial assumption. Humans have always dreamed of creating a better world, but for most of our history, the world stubbornly refused to get better at anything faster than a snail’s pace. A human in China or Europe or the Middle East in the year 1400 didn’t live a significantly better life than one in 400 B.C. Civilizations would rise, but then they would fall, smashed back to earth by something that looked suspiciously like a Malthusian ceiling [link](https://substack.com/redirect/ef029725-b96f-445a-9993-75bc85265bf5?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). As a Frenchman in the year 1000 you could dream of creating God’s kingdom on Earth, but short of supernatural intervention, you could not reasonably dream of a world without smallpox, bedbugs, or senile erectile dysfunction.
Then, of course, something changed. By now you’ve all seen the graph [link](https://substack.com/redirect/d3bb3845-2260-44fa-bc57-79e5c28a6941?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) where world GDP creeps along and then explodes upward like a hockey stick; I won’t post it again. Instead I’ll post this one:
For American women to die from pregnancy used to be a normal occurrence; then in the 1930s and 1940s it became an extreme rarity. Suddenly, a fundamental fact of human suffering that had stubbornly resisted change since time immemorial simply gave way. We fought and lost, and fought and lost, and then one day we fought and won.
The proximate reason for the abrupt decline in maternal mortality was the invention of antibiotics in 1928, and the development of medical practices like blood transfusions whose safety depends on antibiotics. But although penicillin was discovered by accident [link](https://substack.com/redirect/08534daa-9f0f-442a-9a9d-6bffca2247c8?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), it didn’t simply appear out of nowhere; its discovery required the edifice of an industrial society that took centuries to build. The victory over maternal mortality was achieved by a long struggle, not by a happy accident. (In fact, in some countries, maternal mortality began to fall in the 1800s [link](https://substack.com/redirect/e2609b87-b9eb-42bb-80f7-0bcfbe9e156e?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), thanks to the wealth created by industrialization.)
A romantic could argue, if they were so inclined, that the conquest of maternal mortality has made the world a shallower place. In the early 1800s, you could tell stories whose emotional power rested — explicitly or silently — on the universal knowledge that childbirth meant mortal danger. Today, our high school English teachers have to explain this to us when we read Jane Austen or Emily Brontë, just so we understand, on an intellectual level, how brave the women in their novels were.
Such conquests have become commonplace. HIV was a death sentence in 1995; the next year, David Ho and his team unveiled [link](https://substack.com/redirect/6771c807-f575-43b1-b118-9e28530335ee?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) a new combination drug therapy that turned it into a manageable chronic disease [link](https://substack.com/redirect/b86cac83-d9d9-4c7e-9504-5969161e37ec?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). And now, almost three decades later, Unfinished Painting is already becoming something that most people need explained to them; we still understand the meaning of terminal disease, but the context of AIDS, and especially what it meant to gay people in the political climate of the 1980s, is already fading from living memory into dry history.
As the world becomes safer — as one after another edifice of human suffering crumbles before the collective might of science, technology, and industrial society — it becomes harder to harness the emotional power of tragedy, risk, adversity, and heroism. The lives of more individuals become childlike, pure, and unmarked — or at least a little bit more so than before.
I first realized this years ago, while watching Disney’s The Little Mermaid. In the original 1837 Danish fairy tale [link](https://substack.com/redirect/ca3645ce-ddbe-407a-a838-2aafc04a5144?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), the mermaid wagers her life on a chance to win the love of a prince; she fails, and her life is forfeit to the evil sea witch. In the 1989 Disney movie, the same exact thing happens — except instead of passively accepting defeat, the mermaid and the prince simply stab the sea witch in the chest [link](https://substack.com/redirect/85903b2f-321a-450c-831a-31284becdd95?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) with the broken prow of a ship, and live happily ever after.
Perhaps this is the kind of resolution that could only feel natural and satisfying in America, a country that grew up after the Industrial Revolution. Some call Hollywood endings shallow, but they reflect our everyday reality in the modern world; what is David Ho’s defeat of AIDS, but the stabbing of an evil sea witch in the chest?
Nor, I think, are we simply on a temporary upswing. Some romanticists imagine that society is a cycle, where hard times create strong men [link](https://substack.com/redirect/a8f055fd-ac30-4ca4-a51a-f40bab33e32c?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ), who create good times, which creates weak men, who create hard times. But whether or not that sort of institutional cycle exists, the technologies discovered during the last upswing will be preserved. Countries may collapse, but humanity will not forget antibiotics.
Nor is there any sign that this process will be naturally limited by humans’ inability to appreciate the improvements in their material lives. There is no upper limit on the correlation between life satisfaction and GDP [link](https://substack.com/redirect/72f2dc16-f539-47f7-9ba8-52a2258433b5?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). Contrary to popular myth, suicide rates tend strongly to fall [link](https://substack.com/redirect/0dc5dcfc-81f4-4ef9-8c1e-17c5a467994f?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) as countries become richer. The higher measured rate of depression in developed nations is likely due not to ennui, but to better diagnosis.
Some romanticists feel the urge to knock over the edifice of industrial society intentionally, in order to kick against the seeming shallowness of modern life — to return humanity to a world of toil and struggle, in order to ennoble us. But these dark romantics are rightfully recognized in fiction and public discourse as villains. The heroes of our stories are the people like David Ho — the ones who fought to hoist humanity up from the muck so that future generations could be a little more childlike, the ones who studied politics and war so that our grandchildren may study statuary, tapestry, and porcelain.
Romanticists need to accept that the nobility of suffering has always been a coping mechanism — a way to sustain hope through the long twilight of apparent futility. And they need to accept that heroism is always inherently self-destroying — that saving the world requires that the world is worth having been saved.
And they must at least try to understand that in a more general sense, happiness isn’t truly shallow — it just has a different kind of depth. The passions [The passions](https://substack.com/redirect/d0384b12-0800-4aa3-af89-41323f8c10c9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA) of people raised in a kinder, gentler world may be alien and incomprehensible to the older generation, but they are no less intense, and the culture around them is no less complex. Adversity forces us to rise to its challenge, but abundance allows us to discover who we might become, and that is a different sort of adventure.
Looking back on my own life so far, I remember the happy child I was, before clinical depression changed me [link](https://substack.com/redirect/c9077bf3-7799-4db6-a0e4-93122df2e4f9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA ). Depression is horrible, but it added a richness and depth to the person I am today, and I appreciate the value of those changes. But if that happy child had gotten a chance to grow up without depression, I think he would have been changed in different ways, and under the tutelage of gentler teachers, would have become no less worthwhile and interesting of a person.
So it must be with humanity. The modern world of push-button marvels has lost something, but it has gained more than it has lost. By celebrating it, we honor the countless millennia of heroes who worked in some small way to bring it about, even as we dedicate ourselves to continuing their great enterprise. Our legacy is to fill the Universe with children who laugh more than we were allowed to.
\n\n---\n\n## 中文翻译\n\n---
id: 198b62da6ea6a798
subject: "走向更浅的未来"
sender: "Noahpinion <noahpinion@substack.com>"
date: "2025年8月17日，星期日 03:53:11 +0000"
saved_at: "2025-08-20T21:05:58.248132"
---

# 走向更浅的未来

**发送者:** Noahpinion <noahpinion@substack.com>  
**日期:** 2025年8月17日，星期日 03:53:11 +0000  
**邮件ID:** 198b62da6ea6a798

---

[在网页上查看此帖子](https://www.noahpinion.blog/p/toward-a-shallower-future-2ab)

今天我看到我的朋友诺尔·西迪基在网上受到了一些批评。诺尔是Orchid的创始人兼首席执行官，[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/fdb3777a-5a9c-465d-abeb-1535e07afb34?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，这是一家为体外受精选择胚胎的公司，以避免遗传疾病的传递。作为有许多朋友患有遗传疾病的人，这个想法非常吸引人——我认为大多数父母都希望他们的孩子不必承受他们曾经遭受的先天性缺陷。诺尔最近接受了《纽约时报》的罗斯·杜萨特的采访，[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/f1805af0-e957-4d54-b12e-8ca17e1b8e2a?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。当她在推特上发布采访链接时，诺尔问道：[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/e3f1da46-88fd-4908-af25-0c07b9710f8b?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)：
如果你的宝宝永远无法走路呢？如果他们永远无法独立生活呢？如果你本可以阻止这一切……但选择不去做呢？这就是@OrchidInc [链接](https://substack.com/redirect/0659f4b5-123d-4318-9ba4-b20a9acdb341?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)的胚胎筛查所迫使我们思考的问题。你优化了一切……职业、饮食、护肤……但你却要在孩子的基因组上冒险，这是他们健康最重要的决定因素之一？
许多人在X上对此感到愤怒，[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/15aefdd3-81a6-4e9a-9a85-3adb96a4fda9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，称其为“优生学”，声称这无视了患有遗传疾病的人的生命，并普遍表示诺尔对健康婴儿的愿景是反乌托邦的。这个论点让我想起了我写过的最喜欢的文章之一——我在2024年1月的元旦帖子，[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/04eb2ffb-e31c-44b0-9b9d-d8b6550a6788?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。这篇文章讨论了许多人本能地重视人类的痛苦，并轻视那些使过去的挣扎变得过时的技术解决方案。我想重新发布它，因为我认为它适用于关于胚胎筛查的争议。
“我希望活到50岁。”——基思·哈林
是的，这篇文章是从社交媒体平台上最新的荒谬争论开始的，这个平台曾被称为推特。但我保证，接下来会更有趣！
最新的争论围绕着一幅著名的画作：基思·哈林的《未完成的画作》[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/aff09a61-0192-4bf7-9d92-0a2b3ce62156?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。这幅画创作于1989年，代表了艺术家即将因艾滋病而去世的预感。哈林在次年去世，享年31岁。
这是一幅令人难以忘怀、悲惨的图像。从图案的碎片上掉落的油漆条立即唤起了眼泪、血液、解体和无奈；它强调了画布上留下了多少空白。这提醒我们，作为个体的潜力有多少被浪费，以及一个几乎被遗忘的疫情在美国独自夺去了70万人的生命。
前几天，一个名为DonnelVillager的化名账户发布了[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/0018b802-ff41-4eea-948a-64adb6363ba6?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)一幅AI生成的图像，旨在“完成”哈林画作左上角的图案：
DonnelVillager的帖子——完美地模拟了天真无邪，实际上却是在嘲弄艺术欣赏者——本身就是互联网恶作剧的杰作。它立即受到成千上万愤怒的推特用户的谴责，称其“亵渎”了哈林的艺术作品[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/06b112e2-5033-47db-9f78-d4708d6b3ec9?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。辩护者回应称[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/73e7a3bb-108e-4ff0-a1c2-fc138becdbbb?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，认为DonnelVillager的恶搞推文本身就是一件艺术作品，而愤怒的反应证明了AI艺术有潜力颠覆和挑战文化正统。
通常我会对这种社交媒体上的争吵摇摇头，然后继续前行。但我朋友丹尼尔的这条回复引起了我的注意：
当然，丹尼尔也是在开玩笑，但在一个非常重要的方面，他是对的。如果艾滋病从未存在——或者如果HIV治疗稍微早一点到来——哈林可能会创作出类似DonnelVillager的AI图像。毕竟，哈林的其他许多作品[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/fad83a5d-c424-40a4-b584-52352b32bcdf?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)看起来就像那样[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/fad83a5d-c424-40a4-b584-52352b32bcdf?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。
是的，如果没有艾滋病，哈林可能永远不会创作出像《未完成的画作》那样令人难以忘怀或引人深思的作品。他的艺术可能永远保持快乐和异想天开的风格，偶尔夹杂一些政治声明。今年6月，威廉·庞德斯通写道[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/aff09a61-0192-4bf7-9d92-0a2b3ce62156?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)：“每个人都喜欢基思·哈林，但没有人认真对待他……[最新]的展览并没有完全打破哈林重复的观念。”DonnelVillager创作的AI图像是一种极其肤浅的东西——一个大型统计模型对无意义图案的无意识重复。但如果没有短暂生命的压力，哈林的艺术可能永远不会如此深刻。
然而，这样的交换是值得的。《未完成的画作》是一件伟大的艺术作品，但它不值得哈林的生命所付出的代价。如果没有艾滋病，世界可能会变得稍微肤浅一些，人类所要挣扎的悲剧也会减少。但没有人会理智地希望悲剧继续发生，以便人类的生活能够继续充满悲情。逆境不值得逆境的代价。即使是一个基思·哈林活到老年，但他的每一幅画作都是毫无意义的AI生成的垃圾的世界，也比我们实际得到的世界要好。
这让我思考进步的意义。
我的一位祖父是第二次世界大战欧洲战区的轰炸机投弹手。他毫发无伤地回来了，但经历了那么多近乎死亡的经历和那么多死去的朋友，使他终生酗酒。90年代时，我听到一位保守派评论员声称，年轻的美国人变得软弱无力，因为他们从未经历过像二战一代人那样的逆境。我问我的祖父对此怎么看。他说了一些不适合印刷的话，然后说：“我做那些[事情]是为了让你们不必经历。”
在1780年写给妻子的信中，美国的创始人之一约翰·亚当斯表达了与我祖父感受非常相似的情感——许多退伍军人无疑会同意。他写道：
我必须研究政治和战争，以便我们的儿子可以有自由去研究数学和哲学。我们的儿子应该学习数学和哲学、地理、自然历史、海军建筑、航海、商业和农业，以便让他们的孩子有权利学习绘画、诗歌、音乐、建筑、雕塑、挂毯和瓷器。
这些陈述中蕴含着一种信念，即世界的考验和挑战是可能是暂时的；而不是一种需要无休止地忍受的东西，它们是可以并且应该被征服并永远抛在身后的东西。这种信念认为，通过努力，我们可以创造一个持久更好的世界。
这并不是一个微不足道的假设。人类一直梦想着创造一个更好的世界，但在我们历史的大部分时间里，世界顽固地拒绝以比蜗牛还慢的速度变得更好。1400年的中国、欧洲或中东的人，生活并没有比公元前400年的人显著好多少。文明会兴起，但随后又会衰落，被看起来像马尔萨斯天花板的东西[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/ef029725-b96f-445a-9993-75bc85265bf5?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)击回地面。作为1000年的法国人，你可以梦想在地球上创造上帝的王国，但除非有超自然的干预，否则你无法合理地梦想一个没有天花、臭虫或老年勃起功能障碍的世界。
然后，当然，事情发生了变化。到现在为止，你们都见过这张图表[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/d3bb3845-2260-44fa-bc57-79e5c28a6941?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，世界GDP缓慢增长，然后像曲棍球棒一样爆炸式上升；我不会再发布它。相反，我会发布这张：
美国女性因怀孕而死亡曾是正常现象；然后在1930年代和1940年代，这种情况变得极为罕见。突然间，一个自古以来顽固抵抗变化的人类痛苦的基本事实就这样让位了。我们战斗并失败，战斗并失败，然后有一天我们战斗并赢得了胜利。
导致母亲死亡率急剧下降的直接原因是1928年抗生素的发明，以及依赖于抗生素的输血等医疗实践的发展。尽管青霉素是偶然发现的[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/08534daa-9f0f-442a-9a9d-6bffca2247c8?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，但它并不是凭空出现的；它的发现需要一个经过几个世纪建立起来的工业社会的基础。战胜母亲死亡率是通过长期斗争取得的，而不是偶然的快乐。（事实上，在一些国家，母亲死亡率在19世纪就开始下降[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/e2609b87-b9eb-42bb-80f7-0bcfbe9e156e?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)，这要归功于工业化创造的财富。）
一个浪漫主义者可能会争辩，如果他们愿意的话，母亲死亡率的征服使世界变得更加肤浅。在19世纪初，你可以讲述那些情感力量依赖于——明确或隐含——普遍知识的故事，即分娩意味着致命危险。今天，我们的高中英语老师在我们阅读简·奥斯汀或艾米莉·勃朗特时必须向我们解释这一点，以便我们在智力层面上理解，小说中的女性是多么勇敢。
这样的征服已经变得司空见惯。1995年，HIV是死刑；次年，大卫·霍和他的团队推出了[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/6771c807-f575-43b1-b118-9e28530335ee?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)一种新的组合药物疗法，使其变成了一种可控的慢性疾病[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/b86cac83-d9d9-4c7e-9504-5969161e37ec?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJwIn0.KztYzEWpJOR2MnnIg5ijVYRyTJF67hinhCJnHuA6bbA)。而现在，近三十年后，《未完成的画作》已经成为大多数人需要解释的东西；我们仍然理解绝症的意义，但艾滋病的背景，尤其是在1980年代的政治气候中对同性恋者的意义，正逐渐从活生生的记忆中淡化为干巴巴的历史。
随着世界变得更加安全——当一个又一个人类痛苦的堡垒在科学、技术和工业社会的集体力量面前崩溃时——利用悲剧、风险、逆境和英雄主义的情感力量变得更加困难。越来越多的个体的生活变得像孩子一样单纯、纯洁和无暇——或者至少比以前稍微多一些。
多年前，我第一次意识到这一点，当时我在看迪士尼的《小美人鱼》。在1837年原版丹麦童话[链接](https://substack.com/redirect/ca3645ce-ddbe-407a-a838-2aafc04a5144?j=eyJ1IjoiMjBsbmJw